---
layout: post
categories: [tech, changes]
tags: [migration, jekyll, wordpress, github, disquss, blog]
title: Migrating from Wordpress to Jekyll on GitHub Pages
---
Besides my writting skills, my problem with blogging was the software I was using, Wordpress. Although I made use of
lots of the features, something just never seemed right. I found it slow (even if I use caching systems), heavy and
often insecure. I didn't want my vm exploding whenever I got a traffic spike, I didn't want to be patching and upgrading
my WP modules and being worried about security issues. It was kind of hard to get it to look the way I wanted it. I
wrote a custom theme and then I bought another one which looked cool, but I didn't really wanted to stick with
it because it wasn't "mine".

I wanted a static blog website.So I started researching about scaffolding tools and generators for static websites and
I found about GitHub Pages and Jekyll. I had read about them in the past but never really tried. When I got to it,
I knew I had found the solution for me.

The pros

 * I don't have to worry about security issues
 * I can version my posts and contents using a CVS I love
 * I can _easily_ share the source code for my blog
 * I don't have to worry about hosting
 * I can use any domain I own
 * It has a higher geek factor than having a WP blog :P

The cons

 * GitHub crashes every once in a while and maybe GH Pages come down with it

The setup
 gh-pages with jekyll vs static gh-pages generated by jekyll (using plugins vs not using them)

References

 * Tom Preston-Werner's blog
